ROX-17292: Update policy criteria table to reflect new in-app naming (#61461)
openshift/openshift-docs: modules/policy-criteria.adoc

| Image Signature Verified By
| A valid ID of an already configured image signature integration
| ! `OR` only
| *Build*, +
*Deploy*, +
*Runtime* (when used with a Runtime criterion)

6+| *Section: Image contents*

| Image age
| The minimum number of days from image creation date.
| Image Age
| Integer
| ✕
| *Build*, +
*Deploy*, +
*Runtime* (when used with a Runtime criterion)

| Image scan age
| The minimum number of days since the image was last scanned.
| Image Scan Age
| Integer
| ✕
| *Build*, +
*Deploy*, +
*Runtime* (when used with a Runtime criterion)

| Image User
| Matches the USER directive in the Dockerfile. See https://docs.docker.com/engine/reference/builder/#user for details
.
| Image User
| String
| Regex, +
NOT, +
AND, OR
| *Build*, +
*Deploy*, +
*Runtime* (when used with a Runtime criterion)

| Dockerfile Line
| A specific line in the Dockerfile, including both instructions and arguments.
| Dockerfile Line
| One of: LABEL, RUN, CMD, EXPOSE, ENV, ADD, COPY, ENTRYPOINT, VOLUME, USER, WORKDIR, ONBUILD

> | ! Regex only for values, +

Reviewer: just making sure the symbols are OK, like `!` and `+` should be displaying

Author: ! is displayed, and is supposed to be.

The + sign at the end of lines are the adoc way of forcing a newline within a single table cell, and they are not displayed.

AND, OR
| *Build*, +
*Deploy*, +
*Runtime* (when used with a Runtime criterion)

| Image scan status
| Check if an image was scanned.
| Unscanned Image
| Boolean
| ✕
| *Build*, +
*Deploy*, +
*Runtime* (when used with a Runtime criterion)

| CVSS
| Common Vulnerability Scoring System, use it to match images with vulnerabilities whose scores are greater than `>`, less than `<`, or equal to `=` the specified CVSS.
| CVSS

> | <, >, \<=, >= or nothing (which implies equals to) +

Reviewer: ```suggestion
| <, >, \<=, >= or nothing (which implies equal to) +
```

-- and --
 +
a decimal (a number with an optional fractional value). +

Examples: +
>=5, or +
9.5
| AND, OR
| *Build*, +
*Deploy*, +
*Runtime* (when used with a Runtime criterion)

| Severity
| The severity of the vulnerability based on the CVSS or the vendor. Can be one of Low, Moderate, Important or Critical.
| Severity

> | <, >, <=, >= or nothing (which implies equals to) +

Reviewer: ```suggestion
| <, >, \<=, >= or nothing (which implies equal to) +
```

-- and --
 +
One of: +
UNKNOWN +
LOW +
MODERATE +
IMPORTANT +
CRITICAL +

Examples: +
>=IMPORTANT, or +
CRITICAL
| AND, OR
| *Build*, +
*Deploy*, +
*Runtime* (when used with a Runtime criterion)

| Fixed By
| The version string of a package that fixes a flagged vulnerability in an image. This criterion may be used in addition to other criteria that identify a vulnerability, for example using the CVE criterion.
| Fixed By
| String
| Regex, +
NOT, +
AND, OR
| *Build*, +
*Deploy*, +
*Runtime* (when used with a Runtime criterion)

| CVE
| Common Vulnerabilities and Exposures, use it with specific CVE numbers.
| CVE
| String
| Regex, +
NOT, +
AND, OR
| *Build*, +
*Deploy*, +
*Runtime* (when used with a Runtime criterion)

| Image Component
| Name and version number of a specific software component present in an image.
| Image Component
| key=value +

Value is optional. +

If value is missing, it must be in format "key=".
| Regex, +
AND, OR
| *Build*, +
*Deploy*, +
*Runtime* (when used with a Runtime criterion)

| Image OS

> | Name and version number of the base operating system of the image. For example, `alpine:3.17.3``

Reviewer: ```suggestion
| Name and version number of the base operating system of the image. For example, `alpine:3.17.3`
```

| Image OS
| String
| Regex, +
NOT, +
AND, OR
| *Build*, +
*Deploy*, +
*Runtime* (when used with a Runtime criterion)

| Require image label

> | Ensure the presence of a Docker image label. The policy triggers if any image in the deployment does not have the specified label. You can use regular expressions for both key and value fields to match labels. The 'Require Image Label' policy criteria only works when you integrate with a Docker registry. For details about Docker labels see Docker documentation, https://docs.docker.com/config/labels-custom-metadata/.

Reviewer: ```suggestion
| Ensure the presence of a Docker image label. The policy triggers if any image in the deployment does not have the specified label. You can use regular expressions for both key and value fields to match labels. The `Require Image Label` policy criteria only works when you integrate with a Docker registry. For details about Docker labels see Docker documentation, https://docs.docker.com/config/labels-custom-metadata/.
```

| Required Image Label
| key=value +

Value is optional. +

If value is missing, it must be in format "key=".
| Regex, +
AND, OR
| *Build*, +
*Deploy*, +
*Runtime* (when used with a Runtime criterion)

| Disallow image label
| Ensure that a particular Docker image label is NOT used. The policy triggers if any image in the deployment has the specified label. You can use regular expressions for both key and value fields to match labels. The 'Disallow Image Label policy' criteria only works when you integrate with a Docker registry. For details about Docker labels see Docker documentation, https://docs.docker.com/config/labels-custom-metadata/.
| Disallowed Image Label
| key=value +

Value is optional. +

If value is missing, it must be in format "key=".
| Regex, +
AND, OR
| *Build*, +
*Deploy*, +
*Runtime* (when used with a Runtime criterion)

6+| *Section: Container configuration*

| Environment Variable
| Check environment variables by name or value.
| Environment Variable

> | RAW=key=value to match an environment variable as directly specified in the deployment configuration with a specific key and value. `value`` can be omitted to match on only the key. +

Reviewer: ```suggestion
| RAW=key=value to match an environment variable as directly specified in the deployment configuration with a specific key and value. `value` can be omitted to match on only the key. +
```

If the environment variable is not directly defined in the configuration, then the format SOURCE=KEY can be used, where SOURCE is one of SECRET_KEY, CONFIG_MAP_KEY, FIELD or RESOURCE_FIELD. In this case, criteria can only match the key and not the value.

> | ! Regex only for key and value (if using RAW) /+

Reviewer: Is the way this is displayed with symbols correct?

Reviewer 2: What is the `/+` supposed to mean?

Author: It was a typo; I have removed it in the commit I'm about to push.

AND, OR
| *Deploy*, +
*Runtime* (when used with a Runtime criterion)

| Container CPU Request
| Check for the number of cores reserved for a given resource.
| Container CPU Request

> | <, >, <=, >= or nothing (which implies equals to) +

Reviewer: ```suggestion
| <, >, \<=, >= or nothing (which implies equal to) +
```

| Container CPU Limit
| Check for the maximum number of cores a resource is allowed to use.
| Container CPU Limit
| (Same as Container CPU Request)
| AND, OR
| *Deploy*, +
*Runtime* (when used with a Runtime criterion)

| Container Memory Request
| Check for the amount of memory reserved for a given resource.
| Container Memory Request
| (Same as Container CPU Request)
| AND, OR
| *Deploy*, +
*Runtime* (when used with a Runtime criterion)

| Container Memory Limit
| Check for the maximum amount of memory a resource is allowed to use.
| Container Memory Limit
| (Same as Container CPU Request)
| AND, OR
| *Deploy*, +
*Runtime* (when used with a Runtime criterion)

| Privileged container
| Privileged running deployments.
| Privileged Container
| Boolean
| ✕
| *Deploy*, +
*Runtime* (when used with a Runtime criterion)

| Root filesystem writeability
| Containers running with the root file system configured as read only.
| Read-Only Root Filesystem
| Boolean
| ✕
| *Deploy*, +
*Runtime* (when used with a Runtime criterion)

| Seccomp Profile Type
| The type of seccomp profile allowed for the container.
| Seccomp Profile Type
| One of: +

UNCONFINED +

> RUNTIME_DEFAUL +

Reviewer: Should this be RUNTIME_DEFAULT ?

| Liveness Probe
| Boolean
| ✕
| *Deploy*, +
*Runtime* (when used with a Runtime criterion)

| Readiness Probe
| Whether the container defines a readiness probe.
| Readiness Probe
| Boolean
| ✕
| *Deploy*, +
*Runtime* (when used with a Runtime criterion)

6+| *Section: Deployment metadata*

| Disallowed Annotation
| An annotation which is not allowed to be present on Kubernetes resources in a specified environment.
| Disallowed Annotation
| key=value +

Value is optional. +

If value is missing, it must be in format "key=".
| Regex, +
AND, OR
| *Deploy*, +
*Runtime* (when used with a Runtime criterion)

| Required Label
| Check for the presence of a required label in Kubernetes.
| Required Label
| key=value +

Value is optional. +

If value is missing, it must be in format "key=".
| Regex, +
AND, OR
| *Deploy*, +
*Runtime* (when used with a Runtime criterion)

| Required Annotation
| Check for the presence of a required annotation in Kubernetes.
| Required Annotation
| key=value +

Value is optional. +

If value is missing, it must be in format "key=".
| Regex, +
AND, OR
| *Deploy*, +
*Runtime* (when used with a Runtime criterion)

| Runtime Class

> | The RuntimeClass of the deployment.

Reviewer: ```suggestion
| The `RuntimeClass` of the deployment.
```

*Runtime* (when used with a Runtime criterion)

| Host Network
| Check if `HostNetwork` is enabled which means that the container is not placed inside a separate network stack (for example, the container's networking is not containerized). This implies that the container has full access to the host's network interfaces.
| Host Network
| Boolean
| ✕
| *Deploy*, +
*Runtime* (when used with a Runtime criterion)

| Host PID
| Check if the Process ID (PID) namespace is isolated between the containers and the host. This allows for processes in different PID namespaces to have the same PID.
| Host PID
| Boolean
| ✕
| *Deploy*, +
*Runtime* (when used with a Runtime criterion)

| Host IPC
| Check if the IPC (POSIX/SysV IPC) namespace (which provides separation of named shared memory segments, semaphores and message queues) on the host is shared with containers.
| Host IPC
| Boolean
| ✕
| *Deploy*, +
*Runtime* (when used with a Runtime criterion)

| Namespace
| The name of the namespace the deployment belongs to.
| Namespace
| String
| Regex, +
NOT, +
AND, OR
| *Deploy*, +
*Runtime* (when used with a Runtime criterion)

| Replicas
| The number of deployment replicas.
| Replicas

> | <, >, <=, >= or nothing (which implies equals to) +

Reviewer: ```suggestion
| <, >, \<=, >= or nothing (which implies equal to) +
```

>=5, or +
9.5
| NOT, +
AND, OR
| *Deploy*, +
*Runtime* (when used with a Runtime criterion)

6+| *Section: Storage*

| Volume Name
| Name of the storage.
| Volume Name
| String
| Regex, +
NOT, +
AND, OR
| *Deploy*, +
*Runtime* (when used with a Runtime criterion)

| Volume Source
| Indicates the form in which the volume is provisioned. For example, `persistentVolumeClaim` or `hostPath`.
| Volume Source
| String
| Regex, +
NOT, +
AND, OR
| *Deploy*, +
*Runtime* (when used with a Runtime criterion)

| Volume Destination
| The path where the volume is mounted.
| Volume Destination
| String
| Regex, +
NOT, +
AND, OR
| *Deploy*, +
*Runtime* (when used with a Runtime criterion)

| Volume Type
| The type of volume.
| Volume Type
| String
| Regex, +
NOT, +
AND, OR
| *Deploy*, +
*Runtime* (when used with a Runtime criterion)

| Mounted volume writability
| Volumes that are mounted as writable.
| Writable Mounted Volume
| Boolean
| ✕
| *Deploy*, +
*Runtime* (when used with a Runtime criterion)

| Mount Propagation
| Check if container is mounting volumes in `Bidirectional`, `Host to Container`, or `None` modes.
| Mount Propagation
| One of: +

NONE +
HOSTTOCONTAINER +
BIDIRECTIONAL +

> | ✕NOT, +

Reviewer: Should the `x` here be removed?

Reviewer 2: I assume it's here because regex is not supported, so maybe a comma between the `x` and `NOT`? I kept skipping over it thinking it read "XNOR" and only just realized that it's not.

AND, OR
| *Deploy*, +
*Runtime* (when used with a Runtime criterion)

| Host mount writability
| Resource has mounted a path on the host with write permissions.
| Writable Host Mount
| Boolean
| ✕
| *Deploy*, +
*Runtime* (when used with a Runtime criterion)

6+| *Section: Networking*

| Protocol
| Protocol, such as, TCP or UDP, that is used by the exposed port.
| Exposed Port Protocol
| String
| Regex, +
NOT, +
AND, OR
| *Deploy*, +
*Runtime* (when used with a Runtime criterion)

| Port
| Port numbers exposed by a deployment.
| Exposed Port

> | <, >, <=, >= or nothing (which implies equals to) +

Reviewer: ```suggestion
| <, >, \<=, >= or nothing (which implies equal to) +
```

[cols="<,<,<,<,^,^,^,<"]
|===
| *Attribute* | *Description* | *JSON Attribute* | *Allowed Values* | *Regular expressions* | *NOT* | *AND, OR* | *Phase*

8+| *Section: Image registry*

| Image Registry
| The name of the image registry.
| Image Registry
| String
| ✓
| ✓
| ✓
| Deploy

| Image Name
| The full name of the image in registry, for example `library/nginx`.
| Image Remote
| String
| ✓
| ✓
| ✓
| Deploy

| Image Tag
| Identifier for an image.
| Image Tag
| String
| ✓
| ✓
| ✓
| Deploy

| Image Signature
| The list of signature integrations you can use to verify an image's signature. Create alerts on images that either do not have a signature or their signature is not verifiable by at least one of the provided signature integrations.
| Image Signature Verified By
| A valid ID of an already configured image signature integration
| ✕
| ✕
| ! `OR` only
| Deploy

8+| *Section: Image contents*

| Image age
| The minimum number of days from image creation date.
| Image Age
| Integer (whole numbers only)
| ✕
| ✕
| ✕
| Build

| Image scan age
| The minimum number of days since the image was last scanned.
| Image Scan Age
| Integer (whole numbers only)
| ✕
| ✕
| ✕
| Build

| Image User

> | Matches the USER directive in the Dockerfile. See [ Docker documentation Hyperlink] for details

Reviewer: Can we see if this would work? (should automatically create hyperlink)
```suggestion
| Matches the USER directive in the Dockerfile. See https://docs.docker.com/engine/reference/builder/#user for details.
```

> | Matches the USER directive in the Dockerfile. See [ Docker documentation Hyperlink] for details

Reviewer 2: This doesn't actually render the hyperlink. Also IIRC, @kcarmichael08 mentioned that the docs format is to not have a direct hyperlink but rather a footnote. @kcarmichael08 can you confirm?

Reviewer: I think inline links are OK. The doc guidelines say this: https://github.com/openshift/openshift-docs/blob/main/contributing_to_docs/doc_guidelines.adoc#links-to-external-websites

> https://docs.docker.com/engine/reference/builder/#user.

Reviewer: If above change works then remove this line

| Image User
| String
| ✓
| ✓
| ✓
| Build

| Dockerfile Line
| A specific line in the Dockerfile, including both instructions and arguments.
| Dockerfile Line
| One of: LABEL, RUN, CMD, EXPOSE, ENV, ADD, COPY, ENTRYPOINT, VOLUME, USER, WORKDIR, ONBUILD
| ! only for values
| ✕
| ✓
| Build

| Image scan status

> | Check if an image was scanned..

Reviewer: ```suggestion
| Check if an image was scanned.
```

| Unscanned Image
| Boolean
| ✕
| ✕
| ✕
| Build

| CVSS
| Common Vulnerability Scoring System, use it to match images with vulnerabilities whose scores are greater than `>`, less than `<`, or equal to `=` the specified CVSS.
| CVSS

> | <, >, <=, >= or nothing (which implies equals to) +

Reviewer: I think you need an escape (`a`) to stop asciidoc from messing with <=, but that may cause it to render `+` exactly. Sometimes a `\` in front of `<=` works, but not sure if it will in a table row.

```suggestion
a| <, >, <=, >= or nothing (which implies equal to) +
```

-- and --
 +
a decimal (a number with an optional fractional value). +

Examples: +
>=5, or +
9.5
| ✕
| ✕
| ✓
| Build

| Severity
| The severity of the vulnerability based on the CVSS or the vendor. Can be one of Low, Moderate, Important or Critical.
| Severity
| <, >, <=, >= or nothing (which implies equals to) +

-- and --
 +
One of: +
UNKNOWN +
LOW +
MODERATE +
IMPORTANT +
CRITICAL +

Examples: +
>=IMPORTANT, or +
CRITICAL
| ✕
| ✕
| ✓
| Build

| Fixed By
| The version string of a package that fixes a flagged vulnerability in an image. This criterion may be used in addition to other criteria that identify a vulnerability, for example using the CVE criterion.
| Fixed By
| String
| ✓
| ✓
| ✓
| Build

| CVE
| Common Vulnerabilities and Exposures, use it with specific CVE numbers.
| CVE
| String
| ✓
| ✓
| ✓
| Build

| Image Component
| Name and version number of a specific software component present in an image.
| Image Component
| key=value +

Value is optional. +

If value is missing, it must be in format "key=".
| ✓
| ✕
| ✓
| Build

| Image OS

> | Name and version number of the base operating system of the image. For example alpine:3.17.3

Reviewer: ```suggestion
| Name and version number of the base operating system of the image. For example, `alpine:3.17.3`
```

| Image OS
| String
| ✓
| ✓
| ✓
| Build

| Require image label

> | Ensure the presence of a Docker image label. The policy triggers if any image in the deployment does not have the specified label. You can use regular expressions for both key and value fields to match labels. The 'Require Image Label' policy criteria only works when you integrate with a Docker registry. For details about Docker labels see Docker documentation [Hyperlink  https://docs.docker.com/config/labels-custom-metadata/].

Reviewer: ```suggestion
| Ensure the presence of a Docker image label. The policy triggers if any image in the deployment does not have the specified label. You can use regular expressions for both key and value fields to match labels. The "Require Image Label" policy criteria only works when you integrate with a Docker registry. For details about Docker labels, see https://docs.docker.com/config/labels-custom-metadata/
```

| Required Image Label
| key=value +

Value is optional. +

If value is missing, it must be in format "key=".
| ✓
| ✕
| ✓
| Deploy

| Disallow image label

> | Ensure that a particular Docker image label is NOT used. The policy triggers if any image in the deployment has the specified label. You can use regular expressions for both key and value fields to match labels. The 'Disallow Image Label policy' criteria only works when you integrate with a Docker registry. For details about Docker labels see Docker documentation [Hyperlink  https://docs.docker.com/config/labels-custom-metadata/].

Reviewer: ```suggestion
| Ensure that a particular Docker image label is *not* used. The policy triggers if any image in the deployment has the specified label. You can use regular expressions for both key and value fields to match labels. The "Disallow Image Label policy" criteria only works when you integrate with a Docker registry. For details about Docker labels, see https://docs.docker.com/config/labels-custom-metadata/.
```

| Disallowed Image Label
| key=value +

Value is optional. +

If value is missing, it must be in format "key=".
| ✓
| ✕
| ✓
| Deploy

8+| *Section: Container configuration*

| Environment Variable
| Check environment variables by name or value.
| Environment Variable

> | RAW=key=value to match an env var as directly specified in the deployment configuration with a specific key and value . value can be omitted to match on only the key. +

Reviewer: ```suggestion
| RAW=key=value to match an environment variable as directly specified in the deployment configuration with a specific key and value. `value` can be omitted to match on only the key. +
```

> If the env var is not directly defined in the config, then the format SOURCE=KEY can be used. Where SOURCE is one of SECRET_KEY, CONFIG_MAP_KEY, FIELD or RESOURCE_FIELD. In this case criteria can only match the key and not the value.

Reviewer: ```suggestion
If the environment variable is not directly defined in the configuration, then the format SOURCE=KEY can be used, where SOURCE is one of SECRET_KEY, CONFIG_MAP_KEY, FIELD or RESOURCE_FIELD. In this case, criteria can only match the key and not the value.
```

| The Application Armor ("AppArmor") profile used in the container.
| AppArmor Profile
| String
| ✓
| ✓
| ✓
| Deploy

| Liveness Probe
| Whether the container defines a liveness probe.
| Liveness Probe
| Boolean
| ✕
| ✕
| ✕
| Deploy

| Readiness Probe
| Whether the container defines a readiness probe.
| Readiness Probe
| Boolean
| ✕
| ✕
| ✕
| Deploy

8+| *Section: Deployment metadata*

| Disallowed Annotation
| An annotation which is not allowed to be present on Kubernetes resources in a specified environment.
| Disallowed Annotation
| key=value +

Value is optional. +

If value is missing, it must be in format "key=".
| ✓
| ✕
| ✓
| Deploy

| Required Label
| Check for the presence of a required label in Kubernetes.
| Required Label
| key=value +

Value is optional. +

If value is missing, it must be in format "key=".
| ✓
| ✕
| ✓
| Deploy

| Required Annotation
| Check for the presence of a required annotation in Kubernetes.
| Required Annotation
| key=value +

Value is optional. +

If value is missing, it must be in format "key=".
| ✓
| ✕
| ✓
| Deploy

| Runtime Class
| The RuntimeClass of the deployment.
| Runtime Class
| String
| ✓
| ✓
| ✓
| Deploy

| Host Network

> | Check if HostNetwork is enabled which means that the container is not placed inside a separate network stack (i.e. the container's networking is not containerized). This implies that the container has full access to the host's network interfaces.

Reviewer: ```suggestion
| Check if `HostNetwork` is enabled which means that the container is not placed inside a separate network stack (for example, the container's networking is not containerized). This implies that the container has full access to the host's network interfaces.
```

Reviewer: IBM Style doesn't allow use of `i.e.` or `e.g.`.

| Host IPC
| Check if the IPC (POSIX/SysV IPC) namespace (which provides separation of named shared memory segments, semaphores and message queues) on the host is shared with containers.
| Host IPC
| Boolean
| ✓
| ✓
| ✓
| Deploy

| Namespace
| The name of the namespace the deployment belongs to.
| Namespace
| String
| ✓
| ✓
| ✓
| Deploy

| Replicas
| The number of deployment replicas.
| Replicas
| <, >, <=, >= or nothing (which implies equals to) +

-- and --
 +
a decimal (a number with an optional fractional value). +

Examples: +
>=5, or +
9.5
| ✕
| ✓
| ✓
| Deploy

8+| *Section: Storage*

| Volume Name
| Name of the storage.
| Volume Name
| String
| ✓
| ✓
| ✓
| Deploy

| Volume Source
| Indicates the form in which the volume is provisioned. For example, `persistentVolumeClaim` or `hostPath`.
| Volume Source
| String
| ✓
| ✓
| ✓
| Deploy

| Volume Destination
| The path where the volume is mounted.
| Volume Destination
| String
| ✓
| ✓
| ✓
| Deploy

| Volume Type
| The type of volume.
| Volume Type
| String
| ✓
| ✓
| ✓
| Deploy

| Mounted volume writability
| Volumes that are mounted as writable.
| Writable Mounted Volume
| Boolean
| ✕
| ✕
| ✕
| Deploy

| Mount Propagation

> | Check if container is mouting volumes in Bidirectional, Host to Container, or None modes.

Reviewer: ```suggestion
| Check if container is mounting volumes in `Bidirectional`, `Host to Container`, or `None` modes.
```
